In this video, we are gonna be taking
a look, an introductory look at JMS. So,
JMS stands for Java Messaging
Service. And, JMS is actually a Java
API as part of standard Java libraries
and it allows Java applications to send
messages to other applications. Now,
generally, the other application is
considered to be a Java application but
not always. Since its inception, it's been
extended out to other languages. It allows
other clients to actually consume JMS
messages. Now, it is a standard part Java
as proper, but kind of like what JPA is,
where JPA sets up the API standard
essentially a collection of interfaces.
And then, you need an implementation to
work with. Here, example is Hibernate.
That is an implementation of JPA where JMS
also needs implementation for it to
work. The key thing about JMS is highly
scalable, very crazy scalable and it
allows you to loosely couple
applications using asynchronous
messaging. So, it's very important concept
being able to send these messages
asynchronously. Now, JMS has many many
implementations to work with. Amazon SQS,
a very popular one is ApacheMQ. Then, you
have some paid ones like IBM and Oracle.
They both have major implementations.
RabbitMQ. It's a very competitive field.
So, there's a lot to choose from. So,
in this course, we will be looking at
Apache ActiveMQ. That's very stable and
very popular, so that's what we'll be
using in this course. It's not an
endorsement. All these providers have
different features and different
capabilities and there's a lot of
discussion about which one's better.
They all have their own particular
merits.
Now, you might be wondering why we use
JMS over REST. JMS is a true messaging
service. You can simulate the
functionality using RESTful services but
it is a true messaging service. It is
asynchronous, basically send and
forget. You do get greater throughput
with JMS. The HTTP protocol is rather
slow compared to the protocols that are
available with JMS. So, big thing about
JMS is it's very very performant. You get
crazy through puts on it. You also get a
lot of flexibility in a message delivery.
There's a number of things that you can
do within the JMS provider. As far as
delivery to one or many consumers.
Security is also a nice feature in JMS.
It's very robust. A lot of capabilities
there. It's awesome and highly reliable. So, it
can guarantee message delivery. So, a lot
of interesting things that you can do
around that as well. Now there's a couple
types of messaging that we need to look
at. One is, Point to Point, a message is
queued and delivered to one consumer.
It's a very important concept. There can
be multiple consumers but the message is
only delivered once. And then, the
consumers basically connect to what is
called a queue. Then, the other type of
messaging is publish and subscribe.
You deliver a message to one or more
subscribers. So, you'll have a publisher,
it publish the message and then
numerous subscribers can subscribe to a
topic and then get a copy of a message,
all messages that are sent to that topic.
So, the key difference here is in both
cases, the message is being published
point to point. It goes to a what is
termed a queue. Publishing / subscribe goes
to a topic. So, let's take a look closer
to look at these Point to point.
So, the message gets delivered to a queue
and then that consumer listens on that
queue. And, a key point here is you can
have many consumers listening. You could
have a dozen consumers listen. And so,
they're gonna have be receiving work
with that message theoretically, so you
could have a dozen consumers. But only
the message is guaranteed delivered to
exactly one consumer.
It works a lot like a database where the
message gets delivered. And, the
consumer actually needs to confirm and
commit that it's received that message
properly. So, if it errors out, it effect
could be rolls back in that consumer or
another consumer now can get that
message. The other scenarios, the
Publish/Subscribe. So, a message gets
put to a topic this time. And then
basically, the consumer say I want to
listen to this topic and get all
messages sent to that. So, here one
message goes to the topic and I'm
showing that it goes to three different
subscribers. Now, let's get in some key
terms here.
JMS Provider, that is the JMS
Implementation. Remember, JMS is an API
part of Java. Then, you need a specific
implementation. You have the JMS Client,
that is an application that is going to
be sending or receiving messages from
the JMS Provider. Then, you have a JMS
Producer or Publisher, obviously, sends
messages. The JMS Consumer or Subscriber
receives messages. And then of course, a
JMS Message, that is an entity of
data sent and we'll be getting into a
lot more details on that coming up. And
then, JMS Queue, again, for point-to-point
messages. Typically, this is consider FIFO
first-in first-out.
That's how queues typically work. Some
providers do not guarantee that. So can
be provider specific. But not always.
Let's see here. Then, we have a JMS Topic.
Again, similar to a queue but this is a
publish and subscribe scenario. Now, JMS
Message itself is going to have three
parts. A header that is gonna contain
a metadata about the message and then
properties. There are three different types
of properties within a JMS application.
These are things that the client can set
on the message provider. These are
provider specific. So, depending on what
provider you're using, there might be
none, there might be many. So, again it's a
very competitive field and there's
quite a bit of diversity there in
the providers. And then, standard
properties. The JMS API actually sets up
standard properties and some of these
might not be supported by the provider.
And then finally, the last part of
message of course is the payload and
that is going to be the message itself.
Now, some of the standard JMS header
properties are that the JMSCorrelationID.
This is typically a string value.
It's typically a UUID and the
application can set that. So, this is
often used if you have a message that's
gonna have multiple hops, multiple
consumers.
You'll set this correlation ID so you
can see that message travel along
through through the system. And then,
JMSExpires. So, this is one of those things
where we can set an expiry on the
message. So, if the message isn't consumed
in X amount of time, the provider can
delete it. See then, the JMSMessageId again.
This is a string value typically set by
the each JMS provider. JMSPriority, I think
it's one through nine if I remember
right up going off the top of my head
there. Not something you use that much
but there are use cases for that. JMSTimestamp,
that is one the message was
set. And then, the JMSType that is a
string and that's a type of message. And,
we'll cover that in an upcoming slide.
JMSReplyTo and this is where you can say
I'm sending a message to a queue or
topic but I'm gonna be listening for a
reply in a specific queue. So, that's a
specific address to listen to for
message is coming back. Then, JMSRedelivery,
JMSRedelivery. Again, you could add error
out so a client could be processing the
message fail for whatever reason and
then the message would go back and be
retried. JMSDeliveryMode, this is a little
confusing if you read the specification
on this. It's a little nebulous on how
they define it. This is gonna be
persistent or non persistent. And, here
Persistent is the default and this says
the JMS provider should make best effort
to deliver the message. Non-Persistent
occasional message lost is acceptable
which it's kind of a weird term I like.
You can occasionally you lose messages.
And, it kind of indicates that the
provider should make its best effort to
deliver messages by default. But you can
say these type of messages are not that
important. So, you can occasionally lose
them if there's some type of condition
like the provider is an encountering like
load disk space or something like that.
Continuing with JMS message properties,
these are standard properties defined by
the JMS specification. So, we have JSMXUserID,
that's pretty self-explanatory. JMSXAppID,
yeah, this is set by the provider so when
you connect, it's gonna assign your
application ID. JMSDeliveryCount,
Remember, we were talking about three tries
there. JMSXGroupID and JMSXGroupSeq, this
is something that you can use with the
client and to create a group of messages.
The JMSProduceTDIX, this is the transaction ID  when the message was
produced. The converse of that is the
JMSXConsumerTXID. So, the
transaction ID of when the message was
consumed togethe set by the provider. And,
the JMSXRcTimestamp last when the
consumer actually consumed it. And then,
there's a property for JMSXState. This is
kind of internal workings of the JMS
provider but there's a standard on in
standard states to deal with.
Then, we get into JMS custom properties.
This is where you'll typically work to
some type of metadata about the message
that you wanna work with. There's a
number of use cases for that once you
get into messaging. So, these are set as
key value pairs. The key is a string and
the values must be one of just about any
Java common property. So your step string
bullying double float and short long or
objects. So, a lot of flexibility there as to how you can set custom properties
on a JMS message. And then, JMS provider
properties. These again are provider
specific and these are set on the
message as JMS_
The provider can set these
specific properties, usually, for some
type of provider specific feature. So,
that you're gonna have to go to your
provider documentation to find out what
these are, depending on what instance
that you picked up. Now, JMS message types.
The first one is just a Message. You
don't have a payload there. So, you're
gonna be using properties to notify
some type of event. Then, you have a BytesMessage, a TextMessage, a StreamMessage
which is sequence of Java to primitives
which kind of interesting, MapMessage
and ObjectMessage. So, these are
different things. And, most of these
you're gonna have to be ensure that the
other side you're using a actual and
Java client. Now, you might be wondering
which message type to use. I wanna
point out that JMS is very old. It's
from 1998. So, it's fairly old, fairly
mature, very mature. I think we're on to
something. I'm forgetting what exactly
when the JMS released. But it's good old
and mature. It's been around forever.
Originally, it was focused on Java to
Java messaging but technology has grown
and evolved. And right now, the current
what's considered a air quotes best
practice, it's gonna be using JMS TextMessages but have a JSON or XML payload
in there. So, if you were to use a map or
a serialized object, you're guaranteeing
that you cannot use have a non-Java
client on the other side of it. So, this
allows you to decouple from the Java
technology because it's very common to
use JMS then
bridge to some type of other messaging
service for non Java providers. And also,
if you're using JSON or XML payloads and a
text message, if you decide to migrate to
a non-JMS provider, it will make your
life less painful. Because I mean
right now, messaging is becoming more and
more abstracted. One thing we're not
gonna be covering in the course is
tools like Spring Integration and really
really starts abstracting the messaging
layer. You're just sending a message and
you as a Developer, you're completely
unaware of what the messaging
infrastructure is. It really abstract it
out. So, your same code through Spring
configuration you'd be talking to JMS
system, RabbitMQ, Kafka. So, there's a
number of different things that you'd be
using under the covers which be really
completely abstracted. So, if you're
sticking with a JSON / XML payload and
that sticks with the abstraction. So,
that's really kind of where the industry
is at right now. It's using text messages
with JSON or XML payloads.